docs: Settings Simplification ADR (#36224)
openedx/edx-platform: docs/decisions/0022-settings-simplification.rst

* import ``lms/settings/required.py``, which declares settings that must be
  overridden.
* import ``lms/settings/defaults.py``, which defines reasonable defaults for
  all other settings.
* load ``/openedx/config/lms.yml``, which should override every setting
  declared in required.py and override some settings defined in defaults.py.
* apply some minimal merging and/or conditional logic to handle yaml values
  which are not simple overrides (e.g., ``FEATURES``, which needs to be
  merged).

The upstream production CMS config would exist in parallel.

However, as of Sumac, we do not know of any site other than edx.org that
successfully uses only YAML files for configuration. Furthermore,
upstream-provided ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` which loads these yaml files
(``lms/envs/production.py``) is not simple: it declares defaults, imports from
other Django settings modules, sets more defaults, handles dozens of special
cases, and has a special Open-edX-specific "derived settings" mechanism to
handle settings that depend on other settings.

Tutor does provide YAML files, but *it also has custom production and
development settings files*! The result is that we have multiple layers of

> indirection setting between edx-platform's common base settings, and the Django

Reviewer: ```suggestion
indirection between edx-platform's common base settings, and the Django
```

settings rendered into the actual community-supported Open edX distribution
(Tutor). Specifically, production edx-platform configuration currently works
like this:

* ``lms/envs/tutor/production.py``...

  * is generated by Tutor from the template
    ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/lms/production.py``,

    * which derives
      ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/partials/common_lms.py``,

      * which derives
        ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/partials/common_all.py``;

    * and uses templates vars from Tutor configuration (``config.yml``),

    * and invokes hooks from any enable Tutor plugins;

  * it imports ``lms/envs/production.py``,

    * which imports ``lms/envs/common.py``,

      * which sets production-inappropriate defaults;

>     * it sets more defaults, some of the edX.org-specific;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * it sets more defaults, some of them edX.org-specific;
```

security vulnerabilities have arisen due to misunderstanding of how
edx-platform Django settings are rendered.

Developers are frequently instructed that if they need to override a Django
setting, the preferred way to do so is to "make a Tutor plugin". This is a
large amount of prior knowledge, boilerplate, and indirection, all required
to simply do something which Django provides out-of-the-box via a custom
``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``.

Finally, it is worth nothing that all the complexity and toil exists alongside
other edx-platform configuration methods, such as Waffle, configuration models,
site configuration, XBlock configuration, and entry points. Those configuration
pathways are outside of the scope of this ADR, but are mentioned to demonstrate
the distressing level of complexity that developers and operators face when
working with the platform.

Decision
********

This is our target edx-platform settings module structure:

* ``openedx/envs/common.py``: Defaults shared between LMS and CMS (new!).

  * ``lms/envs/common.py``: LMS default settings. Wherever possible,
    prod-ready values should be used; where not possible, obviously-incorrrect

>     values should be used.

Reviewer: Should they be obviously incorrect or just not be mentioned?

Author: For things coming from Django or other libraries, we can omit them.

For edx-platform-defined settings, we'll need them to exist in order to annotate them.

Author: Added a note

Reviewer: Where did you add this note? I don't see it in the RST.

Author: Sorry, forgot to push, take a look now

    * ``lms/envs/test.py``: Override LMS settings for unit tests. Should work
      in a local venv as well as in CI.

    * ``$THIRD_PARTY/lms/production.py``: Third-party providers (like edx.org) and

>       tools (like Tutor) will need to provide a custom setting settings file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      tools (like Tutor) will need to provide a custom setting settings file (which lives outside of edx-platform)
```

>       derived from common.py in order to deploy LMS.

Reviewer: I initially read this as we will allow 3rd parties to put their settings file in a 3rd party folder in the LMS, but I think that's not what you mean right? It might be worth clarifying that.

Author: Fair. Updated, LMK if it reads better.

Reviewer: Made one more suggested improvement but we're in NIT territory so take or leave.

Author: Actually pushed this time, LMK what you think

  declared in required.py and override some settings defined in defaults.py.
* apply some minimal merging and/or conditional logic to handle yaml values
  which are not simple overrides (e.g., ``FEATURES``, which needs to be
  merged).

The upstream production CMS config would exist in parallel.

However, as of Sumac, we do not know of any site other than edx.org that
successfully uses only YAML files for configuration. Furthermore,
upstream-provided ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` which loads these yaml files
(``lms/envs/production.py``) is not simple: it declares defaults, imports from
other Django settings modules, sets more defaults, handles dozens of special
cases, and has a special Open-edX-specific "derived settings" mechanism to
handle settings that depend on other settings.

Tutor does provide YAML files, but *it also has custom production and
development settings files*! The result is that we have multiple layers of
indirection between edx-platform's common base settings, and the Django
settings rendered into the actual community-supported Open edX distribution
(Tutor). Specifically, production edx-platform configuration currently works
like this:

> * ``lms/envs/tutor/production.py``...

Reviewer 2: This looks accurate, but it's slightly depressing to read how complex it is...

      which is not documented.

This is very difficult to reason about. Configuration complexity is frequently
cited as a chief area of pain for Open edX developers and operators.
Discussions in the Named Release Planning and Build-Test-Release Working Groups
frequently are encumbered with confusion and uncertainty of what the default
settings are in edx-platform, how they differ from Tutor's default settings,
what settings can be overriden, and how to do so. Only a minority of developers
and operators fully understand the configuration logic described above
end-to-end; even for those that do, following this override chain for any given
Django setting is time-consuming and error-prone. CAT-1 bugs and high-severity
security vulnerabilities have arisen due to misunderstanding of how
edx-platform Django settings are rendered.

Developers are frequently instructed that if they need to override a Django
setting, the preferred way to do so is to "make a Tutor plugin". This is a
large amount of prior knowledge, boilerplate, and indirection, all required
to simply do something which Django provides out-of-the-box via a custom

> ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``.

Reviewer 2: Again: depressing but true. As Tutor maintainers, we could certainly do a better job at explaining how to create such plugins: either via better documentation or plugin cookiecutters. But that's beyond the scope of this ADR.

Finally, it is worth nothing that all the complexity and toil exists alongside
other edx-platform configuration methods, such as Waffle, configuration models,
site configuration, XBlock configuration, and entry points. Those configuration
pathways are outside of the scope of this ADR, but are mentioned to demonstrate
the distressing level of complexity that developers and operators face when
working with the platform.

Decision
********

> This is our target edx-platform settings module structure:

Reviewer 2: This is a greatly simplified structure, and I'm all in favor of it. But I expect that it's going to create issues for some settings that derive from others.

To clarify, I'm talking about the following scenario:

1. common.py defines `SETTING_BASE = ...` and `DERIVED_SETTING1 = foobar1(SETTING_BASE)` and `DERIVED_SETTING2 = foobar2(SETTING_BASE)`.
2. production.py modifies `SETTING_BASE`. `DERIVED_SETTING1` and `DERIVED_SETTING2` need to be re-defined.

This is for instance what currently happens with `STATIC_ROOT_BASE`, from which `STATIC_ROOT`, `WEBPACK_LOADER` are derived.

How do you expect we are going to resolve these cases? I see 3 possible approaches:

1. Be dumb about it and duplicate settings in common.py and production.py.
2. Somehow preserve the existing `derive_settings` mechanism. (by the way, are we going to keep it around?)
3. Refactor settings such that we don't have to duplicate settings.

Approach 3 would probably be the "right" one, but I expect we'll have to make this decision on a case-by-case basis.

(I'm sure you've thought about this but I don't see it reflected in this ADR. Or is it part of the "Remove redundant overrides" paragraph below?)

Author: Great question, silly of me to omit that from the ADR.

Having looked through the modules with @feanil a lot lately, we feel that (1) would add lot more work for operators and (3) is just an infeasibly large amount of work and breaking changes. I don't love having bespoke tooling, but if we have to keep some bespokeness around, I think that derived_settings is pretty tame and well-defined. So I propose (2). Specifically, the three common.py files would have a lot of derived defaults. Lmk what you think.

Relatedly, in preparation for this, I have already made the derived_settings API a bit easier to work with: https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/pull/36192

Reviewer 2: I'm OK with some bespoke tooling. Like I said, I expect that we might be able to use approach 3 for some settings. If anything, `derive_setting` will help us identify settings that should be simplified, and we can take on those further down the road.

Author: > I expect that we might be able to use approach 3 for some settings. If anything, derive_setting will help us identify settings that should be simplified, and we can take on those further down the road.

I agree. The dependencies between different settings will become much clearer and easy-to-untangle once we have converted all the production.py-special-cases into explicit common.py `Derived` settings.

* ``openedx/envs/common.py``: Defaults shared between LMS and CMS (new!).

>   * ``lms/envs/common.py``: LMS default settings. Wherever possible,

Reviewer 2: Just to clarify: 

1. we don't need a production.py settings file because common.py will be (mostly) production-ready, right?
2. and manage.py will default to loading common.py, right?

Author: Yes and yes. I will clarify both.

    prod-ready values should be used. Where not possible, defaults should be
    omitted (if the settings come from third-party libraries like Django) or be
    set to obviously-wrong values (if edx-platform is defining them). For all
    edx-platform-defined settings, code annotations should exist, either in
    this file or in ``openedx/envs/common.py``.

    * ``lms/envs/test.py``: Override LMS settings for unit tests. Should work
      in a local venv as well as in CI.

    * ``<third_party_repo>/lms_production.py`` (example path): In order to
      deploy the LMS, third-party providers (like edx.org) and tools (like
      Tutor) will need to separately maintain their own custom settings module
      derived from ``lms/envs/common.py``, and point their
      ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` environment variable at this module.

>     * ``lms/envs/yaml.py``: (Possibly) An alternative to third-party

Reviewer 2: For the record, I expect that Tutor will not be using this module at all.

        ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` environment variable at this module.

  * ``cms/envs/common.py``

    * ``cms/envs/test.py``

    * ``<third_party_repo>/cms_production.py`` (example path)

    * ``cms/envs/yaml.py`` (Possibly)

    * ``cms/envs/development.py``

      * ``<third_party_repo>/cms_development.py`` (example path)

Consequences
************

Moving to the target structure will take several steps. The steps are
non-breaking unless noted.

* Introduce a dump_settings management command so that we can more easily
  validate changes (or lack thereof) to the terminal edx-platform settings
  modules.

* BREAKING (minor, all settings modules): Improve edx-platform's API for
  deriving settings, as we are about to depend on it significantly more than we
  currently do.

* Remove redundant overrides in (cms,lms)/envs/production.py. Use Derived
  settings defaults to further simplify the module without changing its output.

* Create openedx/envs/common.py, ensuring that toggle and setting annotations
  are loaded from it. Move settings which are shared between
  (cms,lms)/envs/common.py into openedx/envs/common.py. This may be iteratively
  done across multiple PRs.

> * BREAKING (major, just common.py): Find the best production-ready defaults

Reviewer 2: Is this really going to be a breaking change if production.py remains unchanged in the process? In other words: do we consider that changes to common.py are breaking changes?

Author: Well, since we don't have a well-defined edx-platform API contract, any non-additive change to any python object that isn't underscore-prefixed or literally called "internal" could be considered "breaking" 🥲. 

But that's a rant for another day. Practically speaking, changes to common.py probably won't break anyone. So, I'll mark the common.py commits as `feat!`, but we won't be wringing our hands or issuing DEPR tickets until we're trying to change/remove production.py.

  between both (lms,cms)/envs/production.py and Tutor's production.pys, and
  "bubble" them up to (openedx,cms,lms)/common.py. Keep
  (lms,cms)/envs/production.py unchanged through this process.

* Develop (cms,lms)/envs/development based off of (cms,lms)/envs/common.py.

>   Iterate until we can run "bare metal" development server for LMS and CMS

Reviewer 2: Oh wow I'm really looking forward to that!

  using these settings.

* BREAKING (major): Deprecate and remove (cms,lms)/envs/devstack.py.
  Tools (like Tutor and 2U's devstack) will either need to maintain local
  copies of these modules, or "rebase" themselves onto

>   (lms,cms)/envs/development.py.

Reviewer 2: :+1:

Django settings simplification
##############################

Status
******

Accepted

Implementation tracked by: https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/issues/36215

Context
*******

OEP-45 declares that sites will configure each IDA's (indepently-deployable
application's) Django settings with an ``<APPNAME>_CFG`` yaml file, parsed and

> loaded by a single upstream-provided ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``. this contrasts

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
loaded by a single upstream-provided ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``. This contrasts
```

with the django convention, which is that sites override Django settings using

> a their own ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``. The rationale is that all Open edX

Reviewer 3: Fixed typo and tried to make it clear that this is rationale that you are going to change...
```suggestion
their own ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``. The rationale was that all Open edX
```

> customization can be reasonably specified in YAML; therefore, it is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
setting customization can be reasonably specified in YAML; therefore, it is
```

operationally safer to avoid using a custom ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``, and it
is operationally desirable for all operation modes to execute the same Python
module for configuration. This was `briefly discussed in the oep-45 review
<https://github.com/openedx/open-edx-proposals/pull/143#discussion_r411180111>`_.

For example, in theory, the upstream production LMS config might be named
``lms/settings/settings.py`` and work like this:

* import ``lms/settings/required.py``, which declares settings that must be
  overridden.
* import ``lms/settings/defaults.py``, which defines reasonable defaults for
  all other settings.
* load ``/openedx/config/lms.yml``, which should override every setting
  declared in required.py and override some settings defined in defaults.py.
* apply some minimal merging and/or conditional logic to handle yaml values
  which are not simple overrides (e.g., ``FEATURES``, which needs to be
  merged).

The upstream production CMS config would exist in parallel.

However, as of Sumac, we do not know of any site other than edx.org that
successfully uses only YAML files for configuration. Furthermore,

> upstream-provided ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` which loads these yaml files

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
successfully uses only YAML files for configuration. Furthermore, the
upstream-provided ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` which loads these yaml files
```

(``lms/envs/production.py``) is not simple: it declares defaults, imports from
other Django settings modules, sets more defaults, handles dozens of special
cases, and has a special Open-edX-specific "derived settings" mechanism to
handle settings that depend on other settings.

Tutor does provide YAML files, but *it also has custom production and
development settings files*! The result is that we have multiple layers of
indirection between edx-platform's common base settings, and the Django
settings rendered into the actual community-supported Open edX distribution
(Tutor). Specifically, production edx-platform configuration currently works
like this:

* ``lms/envs/tutor/production.py``...

  * is generated by Tutor from the template
    ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/lms/production.py``,

    * which derives
      ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/partials/common_lms.py``,

      * which derives
        ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/partials/common_all.py``;

    * and uses templates vars from Tutor configuration (``config.yml``),

>     * and invokes hooks from any enable Tutor plugins;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * and invokes hooks from any enabled Tutor plugins;
```

  * it imports ``lms/envs/production.py``,

    * which imports ``lms/envs/common.py``,

      * which sets production-inappropriate defaults;

    * it sets more defaults, some of them edX.org-specific;

    * it loads ``/openedx/config/lms.yml``...

      * which is generated by Tutor from template
        ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/config/lms.env.yml``

        * which derives
          ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/config/partials/auth.yml``;

    * it reverts some of ``lms.yml`` with new "defaults";

>     * and it uses certain values ``/openedx/config/lms.yml`` to conditionally

Reviewer 3: I think you are missing a preposition between "values" and "`/openedx/config/lms.yml`", but not certain whether "in" or "from" is what you are trying to say, or something else. Same issue with the cms version of this statement.

>     * and it uses certain values ``/openedx/config/lms.yml`` to conditionally

Author: ```suggestion
    * and it uses certain values from ``/openedx/config/lms.yml`` to conditionally
```

      override more settings and update certain dictionary settings, in a way
      which is not documented.

* ``cms/envs/tutor/production.py``...

  * is generated by Tutor from the template
    ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/cms/production.py``,

    * which derives
      ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/partials/common_cms.py``,

      * which derives
        ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/settings/partials/common_all.py``;

    * and uses templates vars from Tutor configuration (``config.yml``),

>     * and invokes hooks from any enable Tutor plugins;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * and invokes hooks from any enabled Tutor plugins;
```

  * it imports ``cms/envs/production.py``,

    * it imports ``cms/envs/common.py``, which sets production-inappropriate
      defaults,

      * and which imports ``lms/envs/common.py``, which also sets
        production-inappropriate defaults;

    * it sets more defaults, some of the edX.org-specific;

    * it loads ``/openedx/config/cms.yml``...

      * which is generated by Tutor from template
        ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/config/cms.env.yml``

        * which derives
          ``tutor/templates/apps/openedx/config/partials/auth.yml``;

    * it reverts some of ``/openedx/config/cms.yml`` with new "defaults";

>     * and it uses certain values ``/openedx/config/cms.yml`` to conditionally

Author: ```suggestion
    * and it uses certain values from ``/openedx/config/cms.yml`` to conditionally
```

      override more settings and update certain dictionary settings, in a way
      which is not documented.

This is very difficult to reason about. Configuration complexity is frequently
cited as a chief area of pain for Open edX developers and operators.
Discussions in the Named Release Planning and Build-Test-Release Working Groups
frequently are encumbered with confusion and uncertainty of what the default
settings are in edx-platform, how they differ from Tutor's default settings,

> what settings can be overriden, and how to do so. Only a minority of developers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
what settings can be overridden, and how to do so. Only a minority of developers
```

and operators fully understand the configuration logic described above
end-to-end; even for those that do, following this override chain for any given
Django setting is time-consuming and error-prone. CAT-1 bugs and high-severity

> security vulnerabilities have arisen due to misunderstanding of how

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
security vulnerabilities have arisen due to misunderstanding how
```

Author: Slightly different edit: https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/pull/36224/files#r1962766658

> security vulnerabilities have arisen due to misunderstanding of how

Author: ```suggestion
security vulnerabilities have arisen due to misunderstandings of how
```

edx-platform Django settings are rendered.

Developers are frequently instructed that if they need to override a Django
setting, the preferred way to do so is to "make a Tutor plugin". This is a
large amount of prior knowledge, boilerplate, and indirection, all required
to simply do something which Django provides out-of-the-box via a custom
``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``.

Finally, it is worth nothing that all the complexity and toil exists alongside
other edx-platform configuration methods, such as Waffle, configuration models,
site configuration, XBlock configuration, and entry points. Those configuration
pathways are outside of the scope of this ADR, but are mentioned to demonstrate
the distressing level of complexity that developers and operators face when
working with the platform.

> Decision

Reviewer 3: Consider adding a sentence or two in this Decision section about the decision to adjust OEP-45 in a separate effort to better align with the decisions noted in this ADR. You can also reference the Consequences section for more details.

Author: I've merged Decision & Consequences together, and tried to better weave the OEP-45 relationship into the combined section.

* ``openedx/envs/common.py``: Define as much shared configuration between LMS
  and CMS as possible, including: (a) where possible, annotated definitions of
  edx-platform-specific settings with *reasonable, production-ready* defaults;
  (b) otherwise, annotated definitions of edx-platform-specific settings (like
  secrets) with *obviously-wrong* defaults, ensuring they aren't used in
  production; and (c) un-annotated reasonable production-ready overrides of
  third-party settings. When a particular setting's default should depend on
  the *final* value of another setting, the former should be assigned to a
  ``Derived(...)`` value, where ``...`` is a computation based on the latter.

  * ``lms/envs/common.py``: Extend ``openedx/envs/common.py`` to create, as
    much as possible, a production-ready settings file for the LMS. These
    extension may include: (a) annotated definitions of LMS-specific settings
    with production-ready defaults; (b) annotated definitions of LMS-specific
    settings with obviously-wrong defaults; (c) un-annotated LMS-specific
    overrides of settings defined in ``openedx/envs/common.py``; and (d)

>     un-annotated overrides of third-party settings. Again, ``Derived`` settings

Reviewer 3: Do we want to make an attempt to add links to third-party docs where applicable and/or otherwise make it clear that they are third-party settings?

Author: It's a good idea, but backfilling those comments is not something I want to add to the scope of this ADR. I can tweak this paragraph to clarify that the third-party settings shouldn't have proper *code annotations* but that helpful comments are always appreciated.

Author: Updated

    can be used as appropriate. This will be the default settings file for
    running LMS management commands, although tools can override this (as
    usual) by specifying a ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``.

    * ``lms/envs/test.py``: Override LMS settings for unit tests. Should work
      in a local venv as well as in CI. Needs to invoke ``derive_settings`` in
      order to render all previously-defined ``Derived`` settings.

>     * ``<third_party_repo>/lms_prod.py`` (example path): In order to

Reviewer 3: I'm not really clear on the consequences of this for us, and what this will entail. Not sure if it is worth adding some notes under a consequences section.

Author: I have attempted to explain the consequences in this bullet point. Can you be more specific about what's unclear?

Reviewer 3: Thanks @kylecrawshaw. A couple of thoughts:
1. First, I realized that the term _third-party_ was confusing to me. In the context of the Open edX platform, I'm used to the term _third-party_ being applied to libraries (e.g. Django, DRF) and tools. Even the term _third-party provider_, I would typically associate with examples like: AWS, Azure, Confluent, etc., and not with Open edX providers, unless specifically designated.
  - a. Below you used the phrase "third-party providers (like edx.org)", and that was clear to me, but only because the example was `edx.org`, and it took me a moment to re-orient myself. I'm wondering if switching this to "Open edX providers (like edx.org)", or something like that, would be more clear?
  - b. The reference `<third_party_repo>` is again ambiguous (on its own, and it is opening this paragraph), and maybe this could be `<open_edx_provider_repo>`? I also realized that you wanted a term that would cover tools like Tutor. Maybe `<open_edx_provider_or_tool_repo>`?
  - c. Related, there are a bunch of references to _third-party_ settings in this ADR, and now I'm not clear which are third-party library settings, and which are Open edX provider settings? Maybe you could search for _third-party_ through the ADR and double-check whether being slightly more explicit will bring clarity?
2. This step is written as if it is required, but the consequences section better details the possible alternative of using `lms/envs/yaml.py`. Maybe that was part of my original confusion? Is there some way to make this clear, if I am understanding correctly?

      deploy the LMS, third-party providers (like edx.org) and tools (like
      Tutor) will need to separately maintain their own custom settings module
      derived from ``lms/envs/common.py``, and point their
      ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` environment variable at this module. It is
      important that this module both (i) replaces the obviously-wrong settings
      with appropriate production settings, and (ii) invokes
      ``derive_settings`` to render all previously-defined ``Derived`` settings.

>     * ``lms/envs/yaml.py``: (Possibly) An alternative to third-party

Reviewer 3: Maybe "(Possibly)" should change into a sentence to better detail what it means? Something that refers to the OEP-45 discussion in the Consequences section.

Author: Agreed, updated

      ``FEATURES``. This is adapted from and replaces lms/envs/production.py.
      It will invoke ``derive_settings``.

    * ``lms/envs/dev.py``: Override LMS settings so that it can run
      "bare metal" directly on a developer's local machine using debug-friendly
      settings. Will use ``local.openedx.io`` (which resolves to 127.0.0.1) as
      a base domain, which should be suitable for third-party tools as well. It
      will invoke ``derive_settings``.

      * ``<third_party_repo>/lms_dev.py`` (example path): In order to
        run the LMS, third-party tools (like Tutor, and 2U's devstack) will
        need to separately maintain their own custom settings module derived
        from ``lms/envs/dev.py``, and point their
        ``DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`` environment variable at this module.

  * ``cms/envs/common.py``

    * ``cms/envs/test.py``

    * ``<third_party_repo>/cms_prod.py`` (example path)

    * ``cms/envs/yaml.py`` (Possibly)

    * ``cms/envs/dev.py``

      * ``<third_party_repo>/cms_dev.py`` (example path)

Notes on defaults:

* When the default value of setting X depends on the *final* value of setting

>   Y, ``openedx.core

Reviewer 3: This thought got cut off...

Author: Ah, thx, this was leftover from a draft. This thought was rolled into the bullet points above.

Consequences
************

Moving to the target structure will take several steps. The steps are
non-breaking unless noted.

* Introduce a dump_settings management command so that we can more easily
  validate changes (or lack thereof) to the terminal edx-platform settings
  modules.

* BREAKING (minor, all settings modules): Improve edx-platform's API for
  deriving settings, as we are about to depend on it significantly more than we
  currently do.

* Remove redundant overrides in (cms,lms)/envs/production.py. Use Derived
  settings defaults to further simplify the module without changing its output.

> * Create openedx/envs/common.py, ensuring that toggle and setting annotations

Reviewer 3: I'm not certain what this means. Note that there was an attempt to define setting toggles near the code that uses it (just like third-party code would do), which is separate from providing defaults. Do you believe this is still a good idea, or is this saying the definitions would move?

Author: >  ensuring that toggle and setting annotations are loaded from it.

All I meant by that line was that any code annotations in openedx/envs/common.py should end up in https://docs.openedx.org/projects/edx-platform/en/latest/references/featuretoggles.html. It does seem like annotations in non-"envs" modules (e.g., lms/djangoapps/bulk_email/toggles.py) are pulled in to the docs (e.g., https://docs.openedx.org/projects/edx-platform/en/latest/references/featuretoggles.html#featuretoggle-bulk_email.EMAIL_USE_COURSE_ID_FROM_FOR_BULK). So, perhaps we are all set here.

> Do you believe this is still a good idea, or is this saying the definitions would move?

I am not sure. It seems like we are in a mixed state between near-the-code annotations vs in-the-settings-file annotations. I can see benefits and drawbacks to both direction.

For the purpose of this ADR, I would rather not take a stance. I'd rather focus on simplifying the Django settings, and leave the annotations in place as much as possible.

Does that make sense and sound good? I can edit this bullet point to clarify.

Author: Edited, LMK what you think

  are loaded from it. Move settings which are shared between
  (cms,lms)/envs/common.py into openedx/envs/common.py. This may be iteratively
  done across multiple PRs.

* BREAKING (major, just common.py): Find the best production-ready defaults
  between both (lms,cms)/envs/production.py and Tutor's production.pys, and
  "bubble" them up to (openedx,cms,lms)/common.py. Keep

>   (lms,cms)/envs/production.py unchanged through this process.

Reviewer 3: If the production.oy files remain unchanged, can you better explain the breaking change aspect of this, and what we expect to break or not break? Also, maybe note the action to be taken to workaround the breaking change, if applicable?

Author: If someone is directly using common.py, changes to those common.py defaults may be a breaking change to them. I'm not aware of any specific site using common.py directly, but we can't count out the possibility. When we merge the breaking commits, we will include a list of defaults that have changed, which the operators can react to.

I can update the ADR to clarify.

Author: Updated

* Develop (cms,lms)/envs/dev based off of (cms,lms)/envs/common.py.
  Iterate until we can run "bare metal" development server for LMS and CMS
  using these settings.

> * BREAKING (major): Deprecate and remove (cms,lms)/envs/devstack.py.

Reviewer 3: [inform] I _think_ 2U already handled this as part of the DEPR work for devstack. So for 2U, I _think_ it will just be a question of when and if we can take advantage of dev.py.

Author: Great. I will leave the parenthetical in the bullet point as-is for illustrative purposes, but if you'd like me to change it, feel free to suggest a change.

Author: I sliiightly reworded this

     these settings modules will either need to maintain local copies of these
     modules, or "rebase" their internal settings modules onto
     (cms,lms)/envs/common.py. Update operator documenation as needed.

  2. BREAKING (major): Update OEP-45 to clarify that YAML configuration is
     optional. Operators can opt out of YAML by deriving directly from
     (cms,lms)/envs/common.py, or opt into YAML by using
     (cms,lms)/envs/yaml.py. Document a simplified YAML schema in OEP-45. Issue
     DEPR(s) explaining that (cms,lms)/envs/production.py is renamed to
     (cms,lms)/envs/yaml.py, and that several breaking behavior changes are
     happening in order to achieve the documented schema.

* Create tickets to achieve a similar OEP-45-compliant settings structure in
  any IDAs (independently-deployable applications) which exist in the openedx
  GitHub organization, such as the Credentials service.

.. _Progress on this update is tracked here: https://github.com/openedx/open-edx-proposals/issues/587

Alternatives Considered
***********************

One alternative settings structure
----------------------------------

> Here is an alternate structure would de-dupe any shared LMS/CMS dev & test

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is an alternate structure that would de-dupe any shared LMS/CMS dev & test
```

logic by creating more shared modules within openedx/envs folder. Although
DRYer, this structure would increase the total number of edx-platform files and

> potentially encourage more LMS-CMS coupling. So, will not pursue this

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
potentially encourage more LMS-CMS coupling. So, we will not pursue this
```

  themselves onto (lms,cms)/envs/dev.py.

* Propose and, if accepted, implement an update to OEP-45 (Configuring and
  Operating Open edX). `Progress on this update is tracked here`_. As mentioned
  in the Decision section, this update will either:

  1. Revoke the OEP-45 sections regarding YAML. Deprecate and remove
     (cms,lms)/envs/production.py. This is a BREAKING CHANGE for tools and
     providers that use these settings modules, as they will either need to
     maintain local copies of these modules, or "rebase" their internal
     settings modules onto (cms,lms)/envs/common.py. Update operator
     documenation as needed.

  2. Update OEP-45 to clarify that YAML configuration is
     optional. Operators can opt out of YAML by deriving directly from
     (cms,lms)/envs/common.py, or they can opt into YAML by using
     (cms,lms)/envs/yaml.py. Document a simplified YAML schema in OEP-45.
     There will be several well-communicated BREAKING CHANGES in YAML behavior
     in order to achieve the simplified schema. Furthermore, the rename of
     (cms,lms)/envs/production.py to (cms,lms)/envs/yaml.py will be a BREAKING

>      CHANGE.

Reviewer 3: 1. How will this sub-decision get made, and will this ADR be updated to reflect that commitment?
2. Could this be made less ambiguous at this time? It seemed to me that the current thought is to support a `yaml.py`, with the caveat that we might learn something along the way that convinces us to deprecate this and push it to Open edX providers. If this is accurate, could we document it? If not, maybe you add an Out of Scope section to this ADR, and detail that it is unknown whether `yaml.py` will be supported in the platform, or deprecated in favor of Open edX providers adding in this functionality to their own settings files as needed.

Author: > 1. How will this sub-decision get made, and will this ADR be updated to reflect that commitment?

The ADR currently says:

> Finally, based on what we learn throughout this process, our OEP-45 proposal will either recommend to:
> 1. ...
> 2. ...

which I felt was enough commitment and detail for an ADR. As with any OEP update, there will be an opportunity to debate the proposed decisions.

> Could this be made less ambiguous at this time? It seemed to me that the current thought is to support a yaml.py, with the caveat that we might learn something along the way that convinces us to deprecate this and push it to Open edX providers. If this is accurate, could we document it? If not, maybe you add an Out of Scope section to this ADR, and detail that it is unknown whether yaml.py will be supported in the platform, or deprecated in favor of Open edX providers adding in this functionality to their own settings files as needed.

I think this is an area where you, I, and @feanil all feel differently. Personally, I have felt, and still feel, that production.py is so complex and bespoke that deprecating it and pushing it to Open edX providers will actually be _easier_ for all involved parties than performing (and reacting to) the surgical breaking changes that'd be necessary to get it to a point of having a simple, well-documented, and generally-useful "yaml.py". But, I could be wrong, and I don't think we will be able to come reach consensus on this until we have already gotten our hands dirty coding. Hence, the ambiguity.

Reviewer 3: Thanks @kylecrawshaw. I too obviously don’t know how this will play out. I’m still left wondering if there is a better way to document all this, including the context in these comments?

One idea is to capture this as its own issue, and have the ADR refer to the issue. This would have two benefits. First, it would push the lack of decision outside of an ADR, which is meant to capture decisions. Second, if you want to capture more context or notes on the subject, it gives a home for that discussion. And it feels more natural to update that issue with more information as it is learned, than this decision record.

That said, if you prefer the current take and don’t like this proposal, I don’t think it is worth discussing further. So, please treat this is a completely non-blocking proposal.

Author: Sure, it would be good to have a place to continue the discussion. Updated.

By the way,  I'm @kdmccormick

Reviewer 3: Apologies `@kylecrawshaw`, if you see this. I've almost tagged you a ton of times by mistake, and evidently this time if was more than almost.
